+++
title = "Configure SSO for Chef SaaS"
draft = false

[menu]
  [menu.saas]
    title = "Configure SSO"
    identifier = "chef_infra/Configure SSO"
    parent = "chef_saas"
    weight = 40
+++

Single sign-on (SSO) is an authentication method that enables you to securely authenticate and use all services with just one set of credentials. The steps are as follows:

1. Login to automate. Once done, open the **https://your_automate_url/sso** URL in new tab.

2. The above URL will redirect you to the SAML setup page where the you(admin) can set up the Single sign-on configuration using the UI provided.

3. The Chef SaaS SSO feature supports only SAML-based IDP authentication as of now and will support IDPs according to the [Automate Documentation](https://docs.chef.io/automate/saml/).

## IDP Configuration

Chef SaaS SSO feature supports major SAML authentication as per the current supported IDP of Automate. Following are the sample steps to configure the IDPs based on the tried test use cases:

* [OKTA IDP configuration for SSO](https://chefio.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/CPSK/pages/2720694589/OKTA+IDP+configuration+for+SSO)

* [Microsoft 365 and Azure AD IDP configuration for SSO](https://chefio.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/CPSK/pages/2712142486/Azure+AD+and+Microsoft+365+IDP+configuration+for+SSO)

## User SSO Integration Journey

### Prerequisites

* The User SSO Integration Journey feature is accessible only for the SaaS admins.

* Supported IDP is up and ready.

### Enable SSO for Chef-SaaS

1. To access the Single sign-on UI, navigate to your [Chef Automate UI](https://your_automate_url).

1. Log in as an admin user.

1. Modify your browser URL with SSO.

    * Remove everything after `https://your_automate_url/` from your automate url and add `/sso`. For Example: `https://your_automate_url/dashboard/event-feed` will become `https://your_automate_url/sso`

    * On navigating to `https://your_automate_url/sso` you will be authenticated and authorized for admin-level privileges and redirected to the Chef-SaaS SSO UI.

    IMAGE

1. Fill the form fields with the values provided by your IDP.

    * **SSO URL:** Single Sign-On URL is provided by your IDP.

    * **Email Attribute:** The attribute setup in IDP for user e-mail.

    * **Username Attribute:** The attribute setup in IDP for the username.

    * **Entity Issuer URL:** The value will be `https://your_automate_url/dex/callback`.

    * **CA Certificate:** Ca certificate provided by the IDP. The value should include the following markers:

    ```sh
    -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE----- and -----END CERTIFICATE-----
    ```

    Certificates will be validated for syntactical or semantical errors before submitting the config.

1. Refer to the [link](https://chefio.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/CPSK/pages/2666037294) if any error or validation failures arises.

1. Select **Submit** to set the SSO config. Submit button will be enabled if the form validation is passes.

1. An indication icon will run until setup process is completed. Refer to the image below:

    IMAGE

1. When the request is completed, you will be able to see if your set up is complete or if there are errors with the configuration.

    * If request completes user will see SSO Request is complete. Config applied successfully.

    * If the request fails user will see SSO Request Failed with an appropriate message.

### Delete the SSO integration

The steps to delete the SSO integration is as follows:

1. Remove **Configuration** button will be enabled once config is present. Click on it to remove the config.

1. A popup will appear to confirm if user wants to remove config or not.

IMAGE

1. Select **Remove** to start the config removal process.

    * An indication icon will be present until configuration is removed. Admin will see SSO request is complete Config removed Successfully.

    * In case of error admin will see SSO Request Failed with an appropriate message.

1. Select Cancel to avoid config removal.

Assuming that the admin has set up its IDP, the admin can go ahead and provide the necessary information on the SSO UI page.

1. **SSO URL:** Single Sign-On URL is provided by your IDP. Ensure that this is a valid URL.

1. **Email Attribute:** It is used to refer to the user’s email. The attribute configured in IDP for user email can be passed here.

1. **Username Attribute:** It is used to refer to a username. The attribute configured in IDP for the username can be passed here.

1. **Entity Issuer URL:** It contains the value of the Identifier (Entity ID). This should be your automate URL with dex callback. Ensure that this is a valid url. Ex- https://your_automate_url/dex/callback

1. **CA Certificate:** This is the (Base64) Certificate value generated by your IDP on app configuration. Ensure that this certificate has -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE----- and -----END CERTIFICATE----- markers. This value should be used as it is and should not contain /n sequences.

1. **Group Attribute:** This field is optional, but if not provided, users authenticating via SSO will not be members of any teams.

1. **Allowed Groups:** This field is optional. It provides a Single sign-in for members of the listed groups and discards all user groups that are not on the list. Groups must be on the allowed_groups list to access Chef Automate.

1. **Name Id Policy Format:** When provided, Chef Automate will request a name ID of the configured format in the SAML AuthnRequest.

This is a mandatory field for Microsoft365 and Azure AD IDPs

Defaults to urn:oasis:names:tc:SAML:2.0:nameid-format:persistent.

### Undo your Changes

Admins can now select **Cancel** used to override the field data that was edited.

**For use with Okta**

1. Visit https://okta.com and login into your account.

1. Click on Applications to create your SAML application.

1. Click on Create App Integration.

    IMAGE

1. Select SAML 2.0, and select next.

1. You will be redirected to page where you can create your app.

    IMAGE

1. Fill in the config information as shown in the below image and click next.

    * Single sign on URL: This should be the URL for your automate server plus /dex/callback. Example: https://your_automate_url/dex/callback

    * Audience URI: This will be the same URL as the Single sign-on URL

    * Default RelayState should be blank

    * Name ID Format should be Unspecified

    * Application Username should be Email

    * Under attributes you’ll want to create two:

        * Name: email | Value: user.email

        * Name: username | Value: user.login

    IMAGE

1. Select I'm an Okta customer adding an internal app and click on finish.

1. Add users who can login using this app.

    * Click on Assignments then Click on Assign and then to assign to people. Select users from list to add users on the app.

    IMAGE

1. Your app will be created click on view SAML setup instruction as shown in below image:

IMAGE

1. Your Okta account is setup now. You can use config provided by okta to setup SAML on automate.

Multiple options can be selected.

For use with Azure AD

### Before You Start

This guide assumes you have the following set up:

1. Azure AD / Microsoft 365 with Azure AD access

    * Admin Rights to the Instance

1. Chef Automate 2.0 or later version

Steps are as follows:

1. Create an Application in Azure.

    * Go azure AD portal ([https://portal.azure.com]) and login into it.

    * Under Enterprise applications, Select New application and then select Create your own application to create a new application.

    * Provide name for application.

    * Select Non-Gallery Application option.

    * After creating it, click on single sign-on and select SAML.

    IMAGE

    * Under the Single Sign-On option, fill out the following information:

        * In section 1 – Basic SAML Configuration, enter following:

          IMAGE

            * Identifier (Entity ID): https://{your-chef-automate-fqdn}/dex/callback

            * Reply URL (Assertion Consumer Service URL): https://{your-chef-automate-fqdn}/dex/callback

        * In section 2: User Attributes and Claims, check the defaults that are there:

          IMAGE

            * Required Claim:

                * Unique User Identifier (Name ID)

                * Source attribute: user.userprincipalname

            * Additional Claims

                * givenname

                    * Namespace: http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/ws/2005/05/identity/claims

                    * Source attribute: user:givenname

                * name

                    * Namespace: http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/ws/2005/05/identity/claims

                    * Source attribute: user:userprincipalname

                * surname

                    * Namespace: http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/ws/2005/05/identity/claims

                    * Source attribute: user:surname

            * Add the following additional claims (may need to delete existing entries for emailaddress and username if they already exist).

                * emailaddress

                    * Namespace: leave namespace blank

                    * Source attribute: user.mail

                * username

                    * Namespace: leave namespace blank

                    * Source attribute: user.mail

        * In section 3 – SAML Signing certificate.

          IMAGE

        Download the certificate (Base64).

        * Note the following values from Section 4:

          IMAGE

            * Login URL.

            * Azure AD Identifier.

            * Logout URL.

    * After setup, go to Users and groups for assigning users and groups to the application.

      IMAGE

    Click on Add user/group to assign users and groups to the application.

1. Configure SAML on the Chef Automate via SSO UI

    * Log into chef-automate and then switch to SSO UI i.e https://{your-chef-automate-fqdn}/sso

    * Fill the required values:

        * **CA Information:** this is the X.509 Certificate from section 3 above. Copy the downloaded certificate contents and paste as the value for CA Information.

        * **SSO URL:** This is the value for Identity Provider Single Sign-On URL. Use the Login URL value from Section 4 above.

        IMAGE

        * **Email Attribute:** This is the name of the claim for email. (eg: In our case, it is emailaddress)

        * **Username Attribute:** This is the name of the claim for username. (eg: In our case, it is username)

        * **Entity Issuer:** This should be the URL provide in section 1 for Identifier (Entity ID). (eg: In our case, it ishttps://{your-chef-automate-fqdn}/dex/callback)

        * **Name Id Policy Format:** This should be the Unique User Identifier (Name ID) value from value column for Name ID present in square brackets. eg:- user.userprincipalname [nameid-format:emailAddress]and add it to end of urn:oasis:names:tc:SAML:1.1:.

        IMAGE

        So it should look like this urn:oasis:names:tc:SAML:1.1:nameid-format:emailAddress

Azure AD lets you choose the NameID field and also apply transformations to it. The SAML configuration setting of the selected value in “Choose name identifier format” in Azure AD must match the name_id_policy_format configuration in Chef Automate.

These values are accepted for name_id_policy_format:

* urn:oasis:names:tc:SAML:1.1:nameid-format:emailAddress

* urn:oasis:names:tc:SAML:1.1:nameid-format:unspecified

* urn:oasis:names:tc:SAML:1.1:nameid-format:X509SubjectName

* urn:oasis:names:tc:SAML:1.1:nameid-format:WindowsDomainQualifiedName

* urn:oasis:names:tc:SAML:2.0:nameid-format:encrypted

* urn:oasis:names:tc:SAML:2.0:nameid-format:entity

* urn:oasis:names:tc:SAML:2.0:nameid-format:kerberos

* urn:oasis:names:tc:SAML:2.0:nameid-format:persistent

* urn:oasis:names:tc:SAML:2.0:nameid-format:transient

Click Submit button to patch the SSO settings on chef-automate

Multiple options can be selected.
