+++
title = "Content Reuse and Hugo Shortcodes"
draft = false

gh_repo = "chef-web-docs"
product = []

[menu]
  [menu.overview]
    title = "Content Reuse and Shortcodes Guide"
    identifier = "overview/style/style_reuse"
    parent = "overview/style"
    weight = 130
+++

Chef docs uses [shortcodes](https://gohugo.io/content-management/shortcodes/) to maintain text that appears in more than one location and must be consistent in every location.

## Writing a Shortcode

Shortcode files are written in **Markdown** or **HTML** and are stored in the [`layouts/shortcodes`](https://github.com/chef/chef-web-docs/tree/main/themes/docs-new/layouts/shortcodes) directory in the `chef-web-docs` repo. Most shortcodes are written in Markdown but some are in HTML.

## Adding a Shortcode to a Page

There are two types of shortcodes, **Markdown** and **HTML**. The type of shortcode determines how it is added to a page and how Hugo processes the text when it renders the page into HTML.

{{< note >}}
If you add a **Markdown** shortcode to a page using **HTML** shortcode delimiters, Hugo will assume that the text is already formatted in HTML and won't run the shortcode file through its Markdown processor, leaving the bare Markdown in the HTML page output.
{{< /note >}}

### Markdown Shortcodes

To include a Markdown shortcode in a page, wrap the name of the shortcode file, without the file type suffix, in between double curly braces and percent characters, `{{%/* SHORTCODE */%}}`. For example, if you wanted to add the [`chef.md`](https://github.com/chef/chef-web-docs/blob/main/themes/docs-new/layouts/shortcodes/chef.md) shortcode to a page, add the following text to the Markdown page:

```go
{{%/* chef */%}}
```

### HTML Shortcodes

To include an HTML shortcode in a page, wrap the name of the shortcode file, without the file type suffix, in between double curly braces and angle brackets, `{{</* SHORTCODE */>}}`. For example, add the following text to a page if you wanted to add the [`chef_automate_mark.html`](https://github.com/chef/chef-web-docs/blob/main/themes/docs-new/layouts/shortcodes/chef_automate_mark.html) shortcode:

```go
{{</* chef_automate_mark */>}}
```

### Parameters

Some shortcodes accept positioned or named parameters. For example, the `example_fqdn` shortcode requires a hostname, which is added like this: `{{</* example_fqdn "HOSTNAME" */>}}`, and produces the following output: `{{< example_fqdn "HOSTNAME" >}}`.

The [Fontawesome Shortcode](#fontawesome-shortcode) accepts named parameters. For example, it accepts a class value which is added like this: `{{</* fontawesome class="fas fa-ellipsis-h" */>}}`

See the [Fontawesome Shortcode](#fontawesome-shortcode) section for more examples.

### Nested Content

We have some shortcodes that nest around Markdown content that is included in the text of a page. Those shortcodes are all written in HTML. Note the slash `/` before the name of the closing shortcode.

```md
{{</* shortcode_name */>}}

Some Markdown text.

{{</* /shortcode_name */>}}
```

See the [Notes and Warnings](#notes-warnings-and-admonitions) and the [Foundation Tabs](#foundation-tabs-container) for examples of nested shortcodes.

## Notes, Warnings, and Admonitions

In general, notes, warnings, and admonitions are not the best way to present important information. Before using them ask yourself how important the
information is. If you want the information to be returned in a search
result, then it is better for the information to have its own topic or
section heading. Notes and warnings have a different color than the surrounding text so they can be easily spotted within a doc. If notes and warnings must be used, the approach
for using them is as follows.

Notes and warnings are generated by bracketing the text of the note or warning in **note**, **warning**, or **danger** shortcodes.

### Notes

```go
{{</* note */>}}
This is a note.
{{</* /note */>}}
```

What a note looks like after it's built:

{{< note >}}

This is a note.

{{< /note >}}

### Warnings

Use sparingly so that when the user sees a warning it registers appropriately:

```go
{{</* warning */>}}
This is a warning.
{{</* /warning */>}}
```

What a warning looks like after it's built:

{{< warning >}}
This is a warning.
{{< /warning >}}

### Danger

Danger should be used rarely and only when there are serious consequences for the user:

```go
{{</* danger */>}}
This is a danger block.
{{</* /danger */>}}
```

This is what a danger block looks like after it's built:

{{< danger >}}
This is a danger block.
{{< /danger >}}

## Foundation Tabs Container

There are four shortcodes that can be combined together to create a container that will allow
the user to click on a tab to reveal content in a matching panel. For example, you
may want to display matching Ruby and YAML code blocks. You can create two tabs,
one titled **Ruby** and the other **YAML**, and the user could click on one tab to show
the Ruby code block and another tab to show the YAML code block. See the [example](#example)
below.

The four shortcodes are:

- `foundation_tabs`
- `foundation_tab`
- `foundation_tabs_panels`
- `foundation_tabs_panel`

These shortcodes use the [Zurb Foundation Tabs](https://get.foundation/sites/docs/tabs.html) component.

The container consists of two parts, the tabs and the panels.

### Tabs

Each tab is created with a `foundation_tab` shortcode. Use as many `foundation_tab`
shortcodes as you need to display the number of code blocks or text blocks that
you want the user to be able click on and reveal.

All `foundation_tab` shortcodes must be contained within opening and closing `foundation_tabs` shortcodes.

For example:

```go
{{</* foundation_tabs tabs-id="ruby-python-panel" */>}}
  {{</* foundation_tab active="true" panel-link="ruby-panel" tab-text="Ruby" */>}}
  {{</* foundation_tab panel-link="python-panel" tab-text="Python" */>}}
{{</* /foundation_tabs */>}}
```

#### Tab Parameters

The **`foundation_tabs`** shortcode has one parameter:

`tabs-id`
: This value must be identical to the `tabs-id` value in the `foundation_tabs_panels`
  shortcode, but otherwise it must be unique on the page.

The **`foundation_tab`** shortcode has three parameters:

`active`

: Use `active="true"` to highlight the tab that user will see when they first load
the page. Only add this value to one tab. The matching `foundation_tabs_panel`
should also have `active="true"` in its parameters.

`panel-link`
: This is the value of the panel ID that this tab will link to. This must be identical to
  the `panel-id` value in the matching `foundation_tabs_panel` shortcode.

`tab-text`
: The text in the tab that the user will click on.

### Panels

Each tab has a matching panel which is created with `foundation_tabs_panel` shortcodes.
The Markdown text that is displayed in each panel must be contained in opening and
closing `foundation_tabs_panel` shortcodes.

All `foundation_tab_panel` shortcodes must contained within opening and closing
`foundation_tabs_panels` shortcodes.

For example:

    {{</* foundation_tabs_panels tabs-id="ruby-python-panel" */>}}
      {{</* foundation_tabs_panel active="true" panel-id="ruby-panel" */>}}
      ```ruby
      puts 'Hello, world!'
      ```
      {{</* /foundation_tabs_panel */>}}

      {{</* foundation_tabs_panel panel-id="python-panel" */>}}
      ```python
      print('Hello, world!')
      ```
      {{</* /foundation_tabs_panel */>}}
    {{</* /foundation_tabs_panels */>}}

#### Panel Parameters

The **`foundation_tabs_panels`** shortcode has one parameter:

`tabs-id`
: This value must be identical to the `tabs-id` value in the `foundation_tabs`
  shortcode, but otherwise it must be unique on the page.

The **`foundation_tabs_panel`** shortcode has two parameters:

`active`
: Use `active="true"` to indicate which panel the user will see when they first
  load the page. This value should also be added to the panels matching tab. Only
  add this value to one panel.

`panel-id`
: The HTML ID attribute of the panel. This value must be identical to the `panel-link` value
  in the matching `foundation_tab` shortcode that will link to this panel. This
  value must be unique on the page.

### Example

Below is an example of a container that shows three code blocks in three languages.
You can copy and paste the code below into a page to get started. Note that the `tabs-id`
and `panel-id`/`panel-link` values must be unique on the page.

{{< foundation_tabs tabs-id="ruby-python-go-panel" >}}
  {{< foundation_tab active="true" panel-link="ruby-panel" tab-text="Ruby">}}
  {{< foundation_tab panel-link="python-panel" tab-text="Python" >}}
  {{< foundation_tab panel-link="golang-panel" tab-text="Go" >}}
{{< /foundation_tabs >}}

{{< foundation_tabs_panels tabs-id="ruby-python-go-panel" >}}
  {{< foundation_tabs_panel active="true" panel-id="ruby-panel" >}}
  ```ruby
  puts 'Hello, world!'
  ```
  {{< /foundation_tabs_panel >}}

  {{< foundation_tabs_panel panel-id="python-panel" >}}
  ```python
  print('Hello, world!')
  ```
  {{< /foundation_tabs_panel >}}
  {{< foundation_tabs_panel panel-id="golang-panel" >}}
  ```go
  package main

  import "fmt"

  func main() {
      fmt.Println("Hello, world!")
  }
  ```
  {{< /foundation_tabs_panel >}}
{{< /foundation_tabs_panels >}}

    {{</* foundation_tabs tabs-id="ruby-python-go-panel" */>}}
      {{</* foundation_tab active="true" panel-link="ruby-panel" tab-text="Ruby"*/>}}
      {{</* foundation_tab panel-link="python-panel" tab-text="Python" */>}}
      {{</* foundation_tab panel-link="golang-panel" tab-text="Go" */>}}
    {{</* /foundation_tabs */>}}

    {{</* foundation_tabs_panels tabs-id="ruby-python-go-panel" */>}}
      {{</* foundation_tabs_panel active="true" panel-id="ruby-panel" */>}}
      ```ruby
      puts 'Hello, world!'
      ```
      {{</* /foundation_tabs_panel */>}}

      {{</* foundation_tabs_panel panel-id="python-panel" */>}}
      ```python
      print('Hello, world!')
      ```
      {{</* /foundation_tabs_panel */>}}
      {{</* foundation_tabs_panel panel-id="golang-panel" */>}}
      ```go
      package main

      import "fmt"

      func main() {
          fmt.Println("Hello, world!")
      }
      ```
      {{</* /foundation_tabs_panel */>}}
    {{</* /foundation_tabs_panels */>}}

## Fontawesome Shortcode

The Fontawesome shortcode will display any free [Font Awesome icon](https://fontawesome.com/icons) in a page.

It accepts the following parameters:

- `background-color`
- `border`
- `border-radius`
- `class`
- `color`
- `font-size`
- `margin`
- `padding`

The only required parameter is `class`, which is the same as the class name of the icon.

The following shortcode examples will display these icons: {{< fontawesome class="fas fa-ellipsis-h">}} {{< fontawesome class="fas fa-anchor" font-size="3rem" border="2px dashed" padding="1px" border-radius="5px">}} {{< fontawesome class="fas fa-archive" color="#cc814b" margin="0 0 0 12px">}} {{< fontawesome class="far fa-address-book" background-color="DarkBlue" color="rgb(168, 218, 220)">}}

```markdown
{{</* fontawesome class="fas fa-ellipsis-h" */>}}
{{</* fontawesome class="fas fa-anchor" font-size="3rem" border="2px dashed" padding="1px" border-radius="5px" */>}}
{{</* fontawesome class="fas fa-archive" color="#cc814b" margin="0 0 0 12px"*/>}}
{{</* fontawesome class="far fa-address-book" background-color="DarkBlue" color="rgb(168, 218, 220)" */>}}
```
